source/cal_checks.rst, before:

System Calibration
==================

Illumination Pattern Focus (IPF)
--------------------------------

This plugin takes raw SIM data (1 Channel, 1 Time-point) for a bead lawn, and
shows an axial side-view of the illumination pattern for the first phase of
each angle. This is obtained by rotating the illumination pattern for each
angle so that it is vertically-aligned, reslicing the central half of the
rotated image, and performing a maximum intensity projection along the
direction of the stripes. Note that there are 3 alternative methods of
inputting the first angle:

1. *IJ line selection*: draw a line along one of the stripes from bottom to
   top, and the angle will be calculated.

2. *degrees (IJ)*: measure the stripe angle for angle 1 yourself, clockwise 
   from North.

3. *radians (OMX)*: use the "Optimum k0 angle" for Direction 1, which can
   be found in the OMX reconstruction log file.

The separate angles are displayed stacked vertically as a montage. Ideally, the
cross-section for each illumination stripe should have the appearance of a
point-spread function. A "zipper"-like pattern, on the other hand, is
indicative of a poorly focused illumination pattern or incorrect phase settings
where the illumination pattern is created by interference of multiple beams.

.. _fig4a:

    .. image:: images/Checks_Cal/Cal_IPF_steps.png
        :width: 600px
        :alt: Steps used to produce axial view of illumination pattern
    .. image:: images/Checks_Cal/Cal_IPF_good.png
        :width: 300px
        :alt: Proper illumination pattern focus, PSF-like
    .. image:: images/Checks_Cal/Cal_IPF_zipper.png
        :width: 300px
        :alt: Badly focused illumination pattern, zipper-like

    **Figure 4a.** Top: Sequence of steps used to produce the axial views
    below. Bottom left: a well-focused illumination pattern, with each
    stripe showing a PSF-like appearance. Bottom right: a badly-focused
    illumination pattern with a zipper-like appearance.

Illumination Phase Steps (IPS)
------------------------------

This plugin checks system stability and alignment by detecting illumination
pattern frequencies and plotting the phase steps. The SIM illumination pattern
should be in-focus and the sample should fill most of the field of view: a bead
lawn or fluorescent ink slide works well. In addition to plotting the phase
steps for visual inspection, a number of statistics are also reported. The main
stats are the standard deviations of the illumination pattern frequency, the
phase step size, and reproducibility of the offset (i.e. whether the phase
returns to the same position after each cycle or not). In addition, estimated
illumination pattern line-spacing and k0 angles are reported.

Commit message:

cal_checks IPS Fig 4b and updates

source/cal_checks.rst, after:

System Calibration
==================

Illumination Pattern Focus (IPF)
--------------------------------

This plugin takes raw SIM data (1 Channel, 1 Time-point) for a bead lawn, and
shows an axial side-view of the illumination pattern for the first phase of
each angle. This is obtained by rotating the illumination pattern for each
angle so that it is vertically-aligned, reslicing the central half of the
rotated image, and performing a maximum intensity projection along the
direction of the stripes. Note that there are 3 alternative methods of
inputting the first angle:

1. *IJ line selection*: draw a line along one of the stripes from bottom to
   top, and the angle will be calculated.

2. *degrees (IJ)*: measure the stripe angle for angle 1 yourself, clockwise 
   from North.

3. *radians (OMX)*: use the "Optimum k0 angle" for Direction 1, which can
   be found in the OMX reconstruction log file.

The separate angles are displayed stacked vertically as a montage. Ideally, the
cross-section for each illumination stripe should have the appearance of a
point-spread function. A "zipper"-like pattern, on the other hand, is
indicative of a poorly focused illumination pattern or incorrect phase settings
where the illumination pattern is created by interference of multiple beams.

.. _fig4a:

    .. image:: images/Checks_Cal/Cal_IPF_steps.png
        :width: 600px
        :alt: Steps used to produce axial view of illumination pattern
    .. image:: images/Checks_Cal/Cal_IPF_good.png
        :width: 300px
        :alt: Proper illumination pattern focus, PSF-like
    .. image:: images/Checks_Cal/Cal_IPF_zipper.png
        :width: 300px
        :alt: Badly focused illumination pattern, zipper-like

    **Figure 4a.** Top: Sequence of steps used to produce axial views like the
    ones shown below. Bottom left: a well-focused illumination pattern, with
    each stripe showing a PSF-like appearance. Bottom right: a badly-focused
    illumination pattern with a zipper-like appearance.

Illumination Phase Steps (IPS)
------------------------------

This plugin checks system stability and alignment by detecting illumination
pattern frequencies in raw SIM data and plotting the phase steps (taken from
1st order frequency). The SIM illumination pattern should be in-focus and the
sample should fill most of the field of view: a bead lawn or fluorescent ink
slide works well. In addition to plotting the phase steps for visual
inspection, a number of statistics are also reported. The main stats are the
standard deviations of the illumination pattern frequency, the phase step size,
and reproducibility of the offset (i.e. whether the phase returns to the same
position after each cycle or not). In addition, estimated illumination pattern
line-spacing and k0 angles are reported.

.. _fig4b:

    .. image:: images/Checks_Cal/Cal_IPS_lawn.png
        :width: 150px
        :alt: Bead lawn sample image
    .. image:: images/Checks_Cal/Cal_IPS_A2_Ord1.png
        :width: 150px
        :alt: 1st order illumination frequency spot in Fourier spectrum
    .. image:: images/Checks_Cal/Cal_IPS_A2_PPL.png
        :width: 320px
        :alt: Phase step profile showing some drift

    **Figure 4b.** From left to right: a bead lawn sample image; filtered
    Fourier transform for the Angle 2 central slice, with 1st order
    illumination pattern frequency peak marked; plot of the phase steps with
    red arrows highlighting phase offset drift (phase step standard
    deviation between sequential points on the plot was 0.03 radians, or 2%).
