source/raw_data_checks.rst, before:

Raw Data Checks
===============

Channel Intensity Profiles (CIP)
--------------------------------

Average intensity is plotted for each slice (in the order: Phase, Z, Angle,
Time) where each channel is assigned an arbitrary color: 1st channel = red, 2nd
= green, 3rd = blue, subsequent = black. This helps judge bleaching and whether
all angles show a similar intensity (as they should).

.. _fig2a:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/SIMcheck_CIP_good.png
        :width: 400px
        :align: center
        :alt: CIP intensity profile without bleaching.

    **Figure 2a.** Intensity profile for single-channel image without bleaching.

An overall summary statistic is reported for each channel: **total intensity
variation (%)**. This is for a 9-Z window about the central Z-slice. The
following additional statistics each contribute to the total intensity
variation, enabling the source of the problem to be identified:

* **average intensity decay per 9 section window (%)**, due to photobleaching 
* **maximum intensity difference between angles (%)**, due to miscalibration
* **relative intensity fluctuations (%)**, due to illumination flicker

Examples of each of each of these problems are shown in Figures 2b, 2c and 2d
below, respectively.

.. _fig2b:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_bleach_CIP_bad.png
        :width: 66 %
        :alt: Intensity profiles, bleaching in 3rd channel
    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_bleach_bad.png
        :width: 32 %
        :alt: Raw data split view showing bleaching

    **Figure 2b.** Left: Intensity profile for 3-channel image showing significant
    bleaching in the third channel (blue). Right: a Z-slice from this image
    split to show angle 1 (top) and angle 3 (bottom), illustrates that bleaching
    occurs during acquisition of angles 1 and 2.

.. _fig2c:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_angledif_CIP_poor.png
        :width: 440px
        :align: center
        :alt: CIP intensity profile with intensity difference between angles

    **Figure 2c.** Intensity profile for a 3-channel image showing systematic 
    intensity differences between the slices of the 3 angles.

.. _fig2d:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_fluctuations_CIP_bad.png
        :width: 550px
        :align: center
        :alt: CIP intensity profile with intensity fluctuations

    **Figure 2d.** Intensity profile for a 1-channel image showing a significant
    slice-to-slice intensity fluctuations (due to unstable illumination).


Motion & Illumination Variation (MIV)
-------------------------------------

This check highlights features that change in-between recording data for
different angles. Each angle (assumes 3!) is assigned a color: Cyan, Magenta,
or Yellow, meaning that if a feature is present in all angles it will appear
C+M+Y=White, or will exhibit the color of a specific angle(s) if not (the
color scheme chosen here is intended to make the distinction between angles
and channels clear). The reconstruction algorithm assumes that all features
are sampled at each angle, and features that move or experience different
illumination intensity for different angles (or phases) will result in
artifacts.

.. _fig2e:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_MIV_bad.jpg
        :width: 550px
        :align: center
        :alt: MIV image showing colored artifacts

    **Figure 2e.** False-colored 'MIV' check image, where white regions
    have intensities in the same proportion across all angles. The sample
    contained non-fixed features that moved in-between data acquisition for
    the different angles: these can be seen as colored spots (highlighted
    in this figure with red arrows).

Fourier Projections (FPJ)
-------------------------

*This check is not turned on by default in the main dialog, since it it
requires a sample that fills a large porportion of the field of view and is
mainly intended for diagnosis of hardware issues.* 2D Fourier Transforms of
the raw data are taken, and projected over all phases and angles. There are
sliders for channel and time where present.  When features are in-focus and
their intensities are modulated by the illumination pattern, 2D FFTs of each
plane in the raw SI data should show 1st and 2nd order spots along a line
perpendicular to the angle of illumination pattern stripes. Blurred, missing or
extra spots may indicate problems with the illumination pattern (although
sparse samples may lack clear spots in the FFT). Note that images with XY sizes
that are not a power of 2 (256x256, 512x512 and so on are power of 2) require
padding, which may lead to inferior results.

.. _fig2f:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_FPJ_good.jpg
        :width: 360px
        :align: center
        :alt: Projection of 2D Fourier-transformed raw SIM data (FPJ)

    **Figure 2f.** Projection of 2D Fourier transforms for a good SIM dataset
    that fills the field of view. Here the first and second order spots (marked
    in red) are clearly visible and clean/sharp. Note that the plot is
    symmetrical about the centre, with low frequencies in the middle and high
    frequencies at the edges.


Modulation Contrast (MCN)
-------------------------

The **Modulation Contrast-to-Noise Ratio** (MCNR) is a ratio of SI illumination
pattern strength to noise strength - values less than 3 are inadequate
(purple), values ~6 are adequate (red), values of ~12 are good (orange), values
of ~18 are very good (yellow) and values of ~24 or better are excellent
(white). NB. the display range must not be changed from 0 to 24 for meaningful
interpretation of the Look-Up Table. The check reports an average MCNR value for
auto-thresholded image features (Otsu method), and an estimate for the optimal
**Wiener filter parameter** for OMX data reconstruction based on this.

If the illumination pattern at a given feature is overpowered by the noise,
reconstruction will fail - any super-resolution features observed in such
regions cannot be trusted.

Commit message:

raw data check figure 2g, MCN

source/raw_data_checks.rst, after:

Raw Data Checks
===============

Channel Intensity Profiles (CIP)
--------------------------------

Average intensity is plotted for each slice (in the order: Phase, Z, Angle,
Time) where each channel is assigned an arbitrary color: 1st channel = red, 2nd
= green, 3rd = blue, subsequent = black. This helps judge bleaching and whether
all angles show a similar intensity (as they should).

.. _fig2a:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/SIMcheck_CIP_good.png
        :width: 400px
        :align: center
        :alt: CIP intensity profile without bleaching.

    **Figure 2a.** Intensity profile for single-channel image without bleaching.

An overall summary statistic is reported for each channel: **total intensity
variation (%)**. This is for a 9-Z window about the central Z-slice. The
following additional statistics each contribute to the total intensity
variation, enabling the source of the problem to be identified:

* **average intensity decay per 9 section window (%)**, due to photobleaching 
* **maximum intensity difference between angles (%)**, due to miscalibration
* **relative intensity fluctuations (%)**, due to illumination flicker

Examples of each of each of these problems are shown in Figures 2b, 2c and 2d
below, respectively.

.. _fig2b:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_bleach_CIP_bad.png
        :width: 66 %
        :alt: Intensity profiles, bleaching in 3rd channel
    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_bleach_bad.png
        :width: 32 %
        :alt: Raw data split view showing bleaching

    **Figure 2b.** Left: Intensity profile for 3-channel image showing significant
    bleaching in the third channel (blue). Right: a Z-slice from this image
    split to show angle 1 (top) and angle 3 (bottom), illustrates that bleaching
    occurs during acquisition of angles 1 and 2.

.. _fig2c:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_angledif_CIP_poor.png
        :width: 440px
        :align: center
        :alt: CIP intensity profile with intensity difference between angles

    **Figure 2c.** Intensity profile for a 3-channel image showing systematic 
    intensity differences between the slices of the 3 angles.

.. _fig2d:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_fluctuations_CIP_bad.png
        :width: 550px
        :align: center
        :alt: CIP intensity profile with intensity fluctuations

    **Figure 2d.** Intensity profile for a 1-channel image showing a significant
    slice-to-slice intensity fluctuations (due to unstable illumination).


Motion & Illumination Variation (MIV)
-------------------------------------

This check highlights features that change in-between recording data for
different angles. Each angle (assumes 3!) is assigned a color: Cyan, Magenta,
or Yellow, meaning that if a feature is present in all angles it will appear
C+M+Y=White, or will exhibit the color of a specific angle(s) if not (the
color scheme chosen here is intended to make the distinction between angles
and channels clear). The reconstruction algorithm assumes that all features
are sampled at each angle, and features that move or experience different
illumination intensity for different angles (or phases) will result in
artifacts.

.. _fig2e:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_MIV_bad.jpg
        :width: 550px
        :align: center
        :alt: MIV image showing colored artifacts

    **Figure 2e.** False-colored 'MIV' check image, where white regions
    have intensities in the same proportion across all angles. The sample
    contained non-fixed features that moved in-between data acquisition for
    the different angles: these can be seen as colored spots (highlighted
    in this figure with red arrows).

Fourier Projections (FPJ)
-------------------------

*This check is not turned on by default in the main dialog, since it it
requires a sample that fills a large porportion of the field of view and is
mainly intended for diagnosis of hardware issues.* 2D Fourier Transforms of
the raw data are taken, and projected over all phases and angles. There are
sliders for channel and time where present.  When features are in-focus and
their intensities are modulated by the illumination pattern, 2D FFTs of each
plane in the raw SI data should show 1st and 2nd order spots along a line
perpendicular to the angle of illumination pattern stripes. Blurred, missing or
extra spots may indicate problems with the illumination pattern (although
sparse samples may lack clear spots in the FFT). Note that images with XY sizes
that are not a power of 2 (256x256, 512x512 and so on are power of 2) require
padding, which may lead to inferior results.

.. _fig2f:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_FPJ_good.jpg
        :width: 360px
        :align: center
        :alt: Projection of 2D Fourier-transformed raw SIM data (FPJ)

    **Figure 2f.** Projection of 2D Fourier transforms for a good SIM dataset
    that fills the field of view. Here the first and second order spots (marked
    in red) are clearly visible and clean/sharp. Note that the plot is
    symmetrical about the centre, with low frequencies in the middle and high
    frequencies at the edges.


Modulation Contrast (MCN)
-------------------------

The **Modulation Contrast-to-Noise Ratio** (MCNR) is a ratio of SI illumination
pattern strength to noise strength - values less than 3 are inadequate
(purple), values ~6 are adequate (red), values of ~12 are good (orange), values
of ~18 are very good (yellow) and values of ~24 or better are excellent
(white). NB. the display range must not be changed from 0 to 24 for meaningful
interpretation of the Look-Up Table. The check reports an average MCNR value for
auto-thresholded image features (Otsu method), and an estimate for the optimal
**Wiener filter parameter** for OMX data reconstruction based on this.

If the illumination pattern at a given feature is overpowered by the noise,
reconstruction will fail - any super-resolution features observed in such
regions cannot be trusted. Note that **contrast** is key, and even high signal
intensities may be inadequate where contrast is poor.

.. _fig2g:

    .. image:: http://localhost/~gball/SIMcheck_Examples/Checks_Raw/Raw_MCN_ok_bad.jpg
        :width: 400px
        :align: center
        :alt: Modulation Contrast-to-Noise for medium and low SNR images

    **Figure 2g.** Modulation Contrast-to-Noise (MCN) images for a pair of raw
    SIM datasets acquired at medium and low signal-to-noise ratios (top and
    bottom, respectively). The bottom image has inadequate MCN to give a good,
    high resolution reconstruction.
