source/SI_systems.rst, before:

.. _si-systems:

SI Microscopy Systems
=====================

OMX
---

The OMX systems from GE Healthcare (formerly API) are based on a prototype
built in the lab of John Sedat at UCSF. All versions share a common file
format: this is an MRC file format adapted for the DeltaVision family of
wide-field deconvolution microscopes (also originating at UCSF in the Sedat and
Agard labs), as described in the online documentation of their Priism image
processing package.

Data are acquired in several different schemes by the different versions of OMX
microscope, but all are stored in a "CPZAT" dimension order: i.e. channel, then
phase, then Z-plane, then angle, then time frame. When opening such data in
ImageJ, one usually sees all phases and angles subsumed into the Z dimension,
meaning Zobserved=P*Zreal*A, with phase varying fasest, then real Z, and
finally the angle. Note that bleaching, dependent on the true order of data
acquisition, may well be apparent when using the "Channel Intensity Profiles"
check. OMX microscopes invariably acquire 3 angles and 5 phases of the
illumination pattern.

Zeiss ELYRA
-----------

The Zeiss ELYRA system has greater flexibility in terms of the number of
different angles acquired, with both 3 angles and 5 angles typically used (the
latter produces higher quality reconstructions given a sufficiently photostable
sample). The number of phases is limited to 5 as for the API OMX systems. ELYRA
data are typically stored in .czi format files.

The hyperstack will have the angles folded into the Z dimension (real Z then
angle), and the phase folded into the time dimension. SIMcheck re-orders the
data into the OMX "CPZAT" order prior to running the pre-processing checks for
convenience.

Nikon N-SIM
-----------

Nikon N-SIM raw data are stored as tiled images in .nd2 files; where phases are
tiled in the x-direction, angles in the y-direction. Again, this is
re-formatted by SIMcheck to match the OMX arrangement.

Commit message:

note to discard ELYRA pseudo-widefield for SIMcheck input

source/SI_systems.rst, after:

.. _si-systems:

SI Microscopy Systems
=====================

OMX
---

The OMX systems from GE Healthcare (formerly API) are based on a prototype
built in the lab of John Sedat at UCSF. All versions share a common file
format: this is an MRC file format adapted for the DeltaVision family of
wide-field deconvolution microscopes (also originating at UCSF in the Sedat and
Agard labs), as described in the online documentation of their Priism image
processing package.

Data are acquired in several different schemes by the different versions of OMX
microscope, but all are stored in a "CPZAT" dimension order: i.e. channel, then
phase, then Z-plane, then angle, then time frame. When opening such data in
ImageJ, one usually sees all phases and angles subsumed into the Z dimension,
meaning Zobserved=P*Zreal*A, with phase varying fasest, then real Z, and
finally the angle. Note that bleaching, dependent on the true order of data
acquisition, may well be apparent when using the "Channel Intensity Profiles"
check. OMX microscopes invariably acquire 3 angles and 5 phases of the
illumination pattern.

Zeiss ELYRA
-----------

The Zeiss ELYRA system has greater flexibility in terms of the number of
different angles acquired, with both 3 angles and 5 angles typically used (the
latter produces higher quality reconstructions given a sufficiently photostable
sample). The number of phases is limited to 5 as for the API OMX systems. ELYRA
data are typically stored in .czi format files. 

The hyperstack will have the angles folded into the Z dimension (real Z then
angle), and the phase folded into the time dimension. SIMcheck re-orders the
data into the OMX "CPZAT" order prior to running the pre-processing checks for
convenience.

Note that pseudo-widefield image channels produced by the Zeiss reconstruction
software (alternating with super-resolution channels) should be discarded
before using the reconstructed data as input for SIMcheck.

Nikon N-SIM
-----------

Nikon N-SIM raw data are stored as tiled images in .nd2 files; where phases are
tiled in the x-direction, angles in the y-direction. Again, this is
re-formatted by SIMcheck to match the OMX arrangement.
